MSC4144: Per-message profiles (#4144)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4144-per-message-profile.md

Reviewer: Implementation requirements:
* [ ] Client sending avatars
* [ ] Client using avatars

Author: gomuks web renders per-message profiles as of https://github.com/tulir/gomuks/pull/566

Beeper's linear bot will now set per-message profiles for webhook notices: https://github.com/beeper/linear-maubot/commit/88dfdd4ffa9c58ec4961e6351761997e5a2a930d

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ffce2b9e-d3e7-4924-9970-8aa9059b5c5f)

# MSC4144: Per-message profiles
Currently profiles in Matrix are defined by `m.room.member` state events, and
there is no easy way to have different profiles per message.

## Proposal
The proposed solution is a new field called `m.per_message_profile`, which

> contains a displayname and/or avatar URL to override the default profile,

Reviewer 2: We should provide guidance about the maximal length of `displayname`

Reviewer 2: It would align with the present spec to state that
* the size of `id` MUST NOT exceed 255 bytes
* the size of `displayname` MUST NOT exceed 255 bytes

Reviewer 2: Both of them could be any arbitrary UTF-8 string. Why would you want to restrict it if you already state that `id` is opaque? Clients are already expected to properly sanitize and wrap it for their own rendering.

Including a 64kB `displayname` in each reply sounds excessive. I'd rather we had a recommendation for how to shorten it (i.e., cut it properly on a UTF-8 boundary before reaching 256 bytes and ideally trimming whitespace at its edges).

Reviewer 2: I would mention a suggestion that if the protocol and router discriminant, delimiter and the remote user ID together would exceed 255 bytes so it can't fit in the 
`id`, hashing should be used (and the discriminant should be adjusted to specify this in this case). You can always find a protocol that allows just a little longer IDs than you have anticipated, or there's the simple case of cascading such relays by independent parties, increasing the length of each ID by just a little bit on every hop. 256 bits of entropy is usually considered good enough for a UUID and that fits within 43 characters of unpadded base64 or 64 characters of hex, so it should still leave plenty for further metadata. E.g.,
* For the user `@nick42:matrix.example`, the `id` could be `mx1-mxid:@nick42:matrix.example`
* For a user with an excessive remote ID (`@too_long_name@matrix.example`), this could be `mx1-hash:04b9becd1c9306453d9aa80033a8a70fe9bd4c64989a06b470bc46ef6b8154c7`

> plus an ID to identify different profiles within the same Matrix user.

Reviewer 2: We may want to share guidance about what information clients should use for name coloring. This would probably be the `id` (but the remote `nickname` may also be a second choice)

Author: The spec doesn't have any concept of name coloring currently, so probably no point mentioning it here either

Reviewer 2: That's a pity. It's standardized on XMPP: https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0392.html

> 

Reviewer 2: I would like to propose a new field to forward the remote username or nickname in.
* The `id` can be either randomly generated or a decimal sequence number, but it is definitely not something that I would expect to be prominently displayed in a client. Incidentally, the mxid serves this purpose on Matrix internally.
* The nickname is a short word that is quick to type in when we want to @-mention another member. Usually the localpart of the mxid acts as a poor substitute on matrix right now.
* Not all platforms support a display name, but where they do, it may contain the full, long personal name including spaces, pronouns, affiliations, position, emoji, etc. Many platforms also autocomplete for this when @-mentioning another user.

Author: There's currently no mention support here, but that might make sense if mention support is added. Not entirely sure if it should be in this MSC or a separate one (the feature can be neatly separated from the rest of the MSC and it requires modifying the `matrix.to`/`matrix:` URI spec)

Author: Leaning towards defining mentions to be out of scope here

Reviewer 2: It can still be useful without support for mentions. For example, extant Matrix clients fall back to also showing the mxid (that can not clash) in case of a display name clash in a given room. Similarly they may want to fallback to the remote account name (remote nickname) when the remote display name clashes.

```json
{
  "msgtype": "m.text",
  "body": "Hello, World!",
  "m.per_message_profile": {
    "id": "meow",
    "displayname": "cat",
    "avatar_url": "mxc://maunium.net/hgXsKqlmRfpKvCZdUoWDkFQo"
  }
}
```

The `id` field is required and is an opaque string. Clients may use it to group
messages with the same ID like they would group messages from the same sender.

> For example, bridges would likely set it to the immutable remote user ID.

Reviewer 2: It can happen that multiple platforms are relayed to the same Matrix room and clashes in names may happen. We should either mention that this `id` should contain a sufficient discriminant along with the remote user ID (e.g., prefixing it with the protocol or bridge gateway ID and a delimiter) or that we could introduce another field for this.

This is also important if we want to enable clients and bots to transparently ignore or ban relayed remote users by such a GUID.

Author: This sounds like the same question as https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4144#discussion_r1695534155

### Encrypted avatars
Because the profile is inside the ciphertext in encrypted events, the entire

> profile can be hidden the server, as long as the avatar is also encrypted.

Reviewer 2: > hidden **from** the server

  "body": "Hello, World!",
  "m.per_message_profile": {
    "id": "meow",
    "displayname": "cat",
    "avatar_file": {
      "v": "v2",
      "key": {
        "alg": "A256CTR",
        "ext": true,
        "k": "8dXeBMBMthuXGY5zmUh9Mi0aqC1kndMZ4NCa-0RhELc",
        "key_ops": [
          "encrypt",
          "decrypt"
        ],
        "kty": "oct"
      },
      "iv": "L6zup2cR570AAAAAAAAAAA",
      "hashes": {
        "sha256": "/cTs+PajUcznbV3h1w5gh1AHnLjrKQVl2jU3xLCqoBI"
      },
      "url": "mxc://maunium.net/eKLhozQduElYSgBkWjtwSXoi"
    }
  }
}
```

</details>

### Behavior of omitted and empty fields
If the `displayname` field is omitted, null, or an empty string, the
displayname from the member event should be used instead. Setting an empty
displayname using a per-message profile is not supported, as there aren't any
clear use cases for it.

However, there are use cases for setting an empty avatar, so `avatar_url` being
an empty string should be treated as clearing the avatar and falling back to
the client's default blank avatar behavior (e.g. generating one based on the
displayname). If both `avatar_url` and `avatar_file` are omitted or null, the

> avatar from the member event should be used instead.

Reviewer 2: What should happen if `avatar_url` and `avatar_file` is missing and the member event is also missing an avatar? I suggest generating an avatar from the remote displayname (or nickname) in such a case, not from the member. With such logic, we could save on having to include the empty string for `avatar_url` in each event.

Author: Done

### Extensible profiles
This MSC is not related to extensible profiles and does not attempt to
implement them. However, in case extensible profiles are implemented as
something that can be referenced (e.g. room IDs), the MSC adding them could
allow per-message profiles to specify which extensible profile is used.

## Use cases

### Bridging
Per-message profiles will allow making "lighter-weight" bridges that don't need
appservice access. Currently the only option for such bridges is to prepend the
displayname to the message, which is extremely ugly.

Such bridges would obviously have downsides, like not being able to start chats
via standard mechanisms, and not being able to see the member list on Matrix.
However, those may be acceptable compromises for non-puppeting bridges that
only operate in specific predetermined rooms.

> 

Reviewer 2: We could suggest that a client should try its best to autocomplete @-mentions based on the `displayname` (and nicknames) found in the recently buffered chat log as well as from the member list at present.

It would be ideal to rewrite such user pills before sending to a form that notifies the remote user such as by inserting their remote nickname (or lacking that, the `displayname`), possibly suffixed by whitespace and the `id` in brackets (or just the protocol if we introduced a separate field for that) to mitigate any ambiguity.

Author: I think that's the same as https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4144#discussion_r1855526892

### Feature-parity with other platforms
Other chat applications such as Slack and Discord have "webhooks" which allow
per-message profile overrides. This MSC effectively enables the same on Matrix.

### Roleplaying, plural users, etc
Some users want to be able to switch between profiles quickly, which would be
much easier using this MSC. Currently easiest way is to have multiple accounts,
which has other benefits, but is much more cumbersome to manage.

## Potential issues
Implementing encrypted avatars could cause difficulty for clients that assume
that avatars are always unencrypted mxc URIs.

> 

Reviewer 2: We should mention how this will interact with `<mx-reply>`

Author: `<mx-reply>` no longer exists (#2781)

> 

Reviewer 2: We should mention that relaying reactji will be limited as a single Matrix user can only place the same reaction once on the same event. A workaround would be to perturbate the second and further application of the same reaction by appending a discriminator to the end (for example, invisible characters, numbers, the nick or user `id` in worst case). As maintaining or querying the reaction multiplicity can be difficult by a bridge, always appending the user `id` might be the easiest default workaround. All such counters will still show `1`, but at least it will be visible who has or has not reacted on an actionable message or legacy manual poll.

> ## Alternatives

Author: > Alternative: Setup profiles (Probably as state messages) beforehand and then only refer to the profiles in the actual message.
This would reduce message size, especially if later MSC's add more things to the Profile.
> 
> Not sure if this MSC should be changed, but it I think should at least be mentioned as an alternative.

@onestacked MSC comments should always be in threads (to allow replying, marking as resolved)

Definitely a good idea to list under alternatives though

None.

## Security considerations

### Preventing impersonation
To prevent impersonation using per-message profiles, clients should somehow
indicate to the user that the message has a per-message profile with an easy
way to see the user's MXID or default profile. For example, a client could have
a small `via @user:example.com` text next to the per-message displayname.

> 

Reviewer 2: User experience could be greatly improved in a room with mostly remote messages if this source disclaimer could be hidden (or only shown when clicking on the avatar) if all of the following conditions are met:

* The event sender is a moderator (e.g., has permission level for redaction or a new level)
* The impersonated user is not a member in the room

Author: I've added that now, but there's also 2 new todos to figure out the power level to use and whether anything needs to be done about multiple bridges where the remote users have conflicting displaynames

# MSC4144: Per-message profiles
Currently profiles in Matrix are defined by `m.room.member` state events, and
there is no easy way to have different profiles per message.

## Proposal
The proposed solution is a new field called `m.per_message_profile`, which
contains a displayname and/or avatar URL to override the default profile,
plus an ID to identify different profiles within the same Matrix user.

```json
{
  "msgtype": "m.text",
  "body": "Hello, World!",
  "m.per_message_profile": {
    "id": "meow",
    "displayname": "cat",
    "avatar_url": "mxc://maunium.net/hgXsKqlmRfpKvCZdUoWDkFQo"
  }
}
```

The `id` field is required and is an opaque string. Clients may use it to group
messages with the same ID like they would group messages from the same sender.

> For example, bridges would likely set it to the immutable remote user ID.

Reviewer 3: So why not use separate MXIDs that each have their own profile? Is this purely about keeping more information encrypted?

clear use cases for it.

However, there are use cases for setting an empty avatar, so `avatar_url` being
an empty string should be treated as clearing the avatar and falling back to
the client's default blank avatar behavior (e.g. generating one based on the
displayname). If both `avatar_url` and `avatar_file` are omitted or null, the
avatar from the member event should be used instead.

### Extensible profiles
This MSC is not related to extensible profiles and does not attempt to
implement them. However, in case extensible profiles are implemented as
something that can be referenced (e.g. room IDs), the MSC adding them could
allow per-message profiles to specify which extensible profile is used.

## Use cases

### Bridging
Per-message profiles will allow making "lighter-weight" bridges that don't need
appservice access. Currently the only option for such bridges is to prepend the
displayname to the message, which is extremely ugly.

Such bridges would obviously have downsides, like not being able to start chats
via standard mechanisms, and not being able to see the member list on Matrix.
However, those may be acceptable compromises for non-puppeting bridges that

> only operate in specific predetermined rooms.

Reviewer 3: What's the upside of doing it this way? Not needing admin access on the server?

Author: I think this is basically the same question as your first comment. The assumptions in both are correct: per-message profiles would allow bridging without admin access and with more encryption.

Beeper is going to switch to local bridges with an encrypted cloud "backup". The backup isn't allowed to leak any metadata, which means the remote user profile info must be encrypted and even user IDs can't be in plaintext. I want to try to keep the room data as Matrix-compatible as possible, hence this MSC.

There are rooms that use extremely ugly relaybot bridges even now (matterbridge), so there's clearly some demand for bridging without requiring admin access. This MSC would make those bridges look much nicer.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for explaining! Does this mean that encrypted state (MSC3414?) is another alternative?

Author: To some extent yes, although that'd still leak some kinds of user IDs: even if the state keys were hashes or something, it'd still leak that a different user sent a message, which is more metadata than encrypted per-message profiles. It also wouldn't help with the non-admin-bridges

### Feature-parity with other platforms
Other chat applications such as Slack and Discord have "webhooks" which allow

> per-message profile overrides. This MSC effectively enables the same on Matrix.

Reviewer 3: Not required, but for those of us not doing bridging often, links to their docs would be great.

Author: Added link to https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook#execute-webhook

# MSC4144: Per-message profiles
Currently profiles in Matrix are defined by `m.room.member` state events, and
there is no easy way to have different profiles per message.

## Proposal
The proposed solution is a new field called `m.per_message_profile`, which
contains a displayname and/or avatar URL to override the default profile,
plus an ID to identify different profiles within the same Matrix user.

```json
{
  "msgtype": "m.text",
  "body": "Hello, World!",
  "m.per_message_profile": {
    "id": "meow",
    "displayname": "cat",
    "avatar_url": "mxc://maunium.net/hgXsKqlmRfpKvCZdUoWDkFQo"
  }
}
```

The `id` field is required and is an opaque string. Clients may use it to group
messages with the same ID like they would group messages from the same sender.

> For example, bridges would likely set it to the immutable remote user ID.

Reviewer 4: What is the scope of this `id`? I assume it needs to be scoped at least to the sender to avoid spoofing. But is it also scoped to the room, or are messages from the same sender in different rooms assumed to be the same?

Author: Probably makes sense to be user-specific (different sender mxid = different per-message profiles) but otherwise global (not room-specific)

Author: Scope has been defined to be only user-specific now

Such bridges would obviously have downsides, like not being able to start chats
via standard mechanisms, and not being able to see the member list on Matrix.
However, those may be acceptable compromises for non-puppeting bridges that
only operate in specific predetermined rooms.

This method also allows encrypting profile info, which reduces metadata leaked
by bridging.

### Feature-parity with other platforms
Other chat applications such as Slack and Discord have "webhooks" which allow
per-message profile overrides. This MSC effectively enables the same on Matrix.

For example, Discord's [execute webhook](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook#execute-webhook)
API takes `username` and `avatar_url` as optional parameters.

### Roleplaying, plural users, etc
Some users want to be able to switch between profiles quickly, which would be
much easier using this MSC. Currently easiest way is to have multiple accounts,
which has other benefits, but is much more cumbersome to manage.

## Potential issues
Implementing encrypted avatars could cause difficulty for clients that assume
that avatars are always unencrypted mxc URIs.

> ## Alternatives

Reviewer 5: Reminds me of MSC3464. This is more general than that MSC, though.

# MSC4144: Per-message profiles
Currently profiles in Matrix are defined by `m.room.member` state events, and
there is no easy way to have different profiles per message.

## Proposal
The proposed solution is a new field called `m.per_message_profile`, which
contains a displayname and/or avatar URL to override the default profile,
plus an ID to identify different profiles within the same Matrix user.

```json
{
  "msgtype": "m.text",
  "body": "Hello, World!",

>   "m.per_message_profile": {

Author: That might cause ptsd from reply fallbacks 😹 Maybe it is the best option though. Needs very strict rules to ensure the fallback can always be safely stripped out. An indicator for whether the fallback is present at all is probably also a good idea.

I don't think extensible events would help at all unless you duplicated the entire message (one copy with a fallback and another without), but duplication is also bad

Perhaps something along the lines of 

```json
{
  "msgtype": "m.text",
  "body": "cat: Hello, World!",
  "format": "org.matrix.custom.html",
  "formatted_body": "<strong data-mx-profile-fallback>cat: </strong>Hello, World!",
  "m.per_message_profile": {
    "id": "meow",
    "displayname": "cat",
    "avatar_url": "mxc://maunium.net/hgXsKqlmRfpKvCZdUoWDkFQo",
    "has_fallback": true
  }
}
```

where if `has_fallback` is true, `body` MUST be prefixed with the exact value of displayname, followed by a colon and a space, and `formatted_body` (if present) MUST have the same prefix inside a `strong` tag with the `data-mx-profile-fallback` attribute

# MSC4144: Per-message profiles
Currently profiles in Matrix are defined by `m.room.member` state events, and
there is no easy way to have different profiles per message.

## Proposal
The proposed solution is a new field called `m.per_message_profile`, which
contains a displayname and/or avatar URL to override the default profile,
plus an ID to identify different profiles within the same Matrix user.

```json
{
  "msgtype": "m.text",
  "body": "Hello, World!",

>   "m.per_message_profile": {

Reviewer 6: Could it also include origin of original profile?

something like: `"origin": "discord.com"`

it can help client render where this user actually is from.

Author: Generally the `sender` of the event is a sufficient hint for where the message is from. I don't think there's any benefit to a new field, especially since it wouldn't be able to say the real origin anyway (like what if it's a discord webhook that comes from github or another chat network?)

>   "m.per_message_profile": {

Reviewer 7: Bikeshedding but `per_message` part looks a bit extraneous here, given that this is a subobject in a message event.

  }
}
```

The `id` field is required and is an opaque string. Clients may use it to group
messages with the same ID like they would group messages from the same sender.
For example, bridges would likely set it to the immutable remote user ID.

This ID is scoped to the real MXID used to send the event, but is otherwise
global. In other words, the same ID in different rooms from the same account
can be considered to be the same user, but the same ID in the same room from
different accounts are considered to be different users.

The field is allowed for all message events, which currently means
`m.room.message` and `m.sticker`. A future MSC may expand the field to other
events, such as reactions.

Modifying per-message profiles using edits is allowed, i.e. clients SHOULD
include the per-message profile object in `m.new_content` when sending edits
and read it when receiving edits. Including the per-message profile object in
the edit fallback at the top level is not necessary, as all clients that support
per-message profiles can be assumed to support edits.

### Field limits
After JSON decoding, `id` and `displayname` MUST be at most 255 bytes of UTF-8

> and every code point MUST be a Unicode scalar. Null bytes (`\u0000`) are not

Reviewer 7: Bytes and UTF-8 are orthogonal. Maybe this is better?
```suggestion
After JSON decoding, `id` and `displayname` MUST be at most 255 bytes and consist
of valid Unicode scalars encoded as UTF-8. Null bytes (`\u00`) are not
```

fallback avatar rather than the global one.

### Extensible profiles
This MSC is not related to extensible profiles and does not attempt to
implement them. However, in case extensible profiles are implemented as
something that can be referenced (e.g. room IDs), the MSC adding them could
allow per-message profiles to specify which extensible profile is used.

### Fallbacks for old clients
In order for users on old clients to see the per-message profile data, sending
clients SHOULD include a fallback containing the per-message displayname.
When a fallback is used, the per-message profile object MUST include
`"has_fallback": true`.

Fallbacks are intentionally optional. Clients MUST NOT assume the message has
a fallback unless `has_fallback` is set to `true`,

#### Plaintext fallback
The fallback MUST be at the beginning of the plaintext `body` and consist of
the exact value of the `displayname` property, followed by a colon (`:`) and
a space (`\x20`), e.g. `cat: original message`.

To remove the plaintext fallback, trim the prefix `{displayname}: ` from the body.

#### HTML fallback
If a `formatted_body` of type `org.matrix.custom.html` is present, it SHOULD

> include the same fallback text inside a `strong` tag with the `data-mx-profile-fallback`

Author: I don't think the MSC is going to suggest that, users who want to understand messages better should use a client that supports per-message profiles. However, if the fallback removal was done using a string replacement instead of regex (as mentioned in the thread above this one), then the sender could technically add images as an implementation detail.

attribute, e.g. `<strong data-mx-profile-fallback>cat: </strong>original message`.

The displayname MUST be HTML-escaped and there MUST NOT be any HTML tags inside
the fallback. The tag MUST NOT have any other attributes. The attribute MAY
have an empty string as its value (`=""`) for compatibility with all HTML
generators, but MUST NOT have any other value. The HTML fallback is not mandated
to be at the beginning of the string, as there may be valid reasons to put it
inside another tag, such as a `<p>` tag.

To remove the HTML fallback, either use a HTML parser to drop the entire `strong`
tag with a `data-mx-profile-fallback` attribute, or replace matches of the

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Author: > Personally I would like to argue for non-fallback content to be explicitly stated in that MSC in a separate property field

Duplicating the entire content is a really bad idea. Each fallback doubles the content, so if there are 3 different fallbacks (edits, formatting, per-message profiles), that'd result in 2\*2\*2 = 8 duplicates of the content. It might be "only" 6 duplicates if the non-fallback per-message profile is only inside `m.new_content`, but if anyone decided to invent a new thing needing a fallback copy, it'd jump to 12 or more

> which is safer, handling multi-line input, other tags, matching the same closing tag, etc.

The regex is intentionally fairly strict, other tags are not meant to be allowed. It could maybe slightly be relaxed in terms of the trailing space inside the fallback to allow `\n` there (`<br>` is obviously not allowed), perhaps `:\s*` instead of `: `

Alternatively, I guess the fallback itself could be put in another field, such that clients can simply do `formatted_body.replace(fallback, "")` rather than using a regex 🤔

> Similarly, suggesting trimming the plaintext component by "PMP name length + 2" also assumes that clients implement the spec accurately as it stands today, and do not deviate. This also cannot be guaranteed.

The only consequence of deviating from the spec is that the message will render incorrectly. If clients don't implement the spec correctly and their messages render differently than they intended, that's their problem, not the spec's.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Reviewer 8: It would be really useful to have the fallback without making it confusing for users which might see those.

Similarly if the original username and the fallback is the same it doesn't make much sense to have both. Not sure if that's possible but it would cause less frictions with clients which don't support per message profiles.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Author: Not sure how that's related to this thread, but fallbacks are already completely optional. Clients can freely omit the fallback when sending messages if they don't think it provides any value.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Reviewer 8: clients who don't handle per message user names, display usernames twice even if the senders username outside of that message would be the same, when  receiving them from clients who do send fallbacks.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Author: As I just said, clients don't have to include a fallback. If the sending client notices that it's going to send a per-message profile with the same name as the user's global profile (e.g. because only the avatar is changed), it can simply skip adding the fallback. The fallback is completely optional, so the choice of whether to include it is up to the sender.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Author: @Blackilykat [posted](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4144#issuecomment-5216616714) outside of a thread:

> I'm not active in matrix spec proposals but am developing a bot which benefits from this feature and I'd like to give my 2 cents.
>
> I think the sender should have more freedom on how to format the HTML fallback. Currently, it is required to be in exactly a `<strong>` tag with the `data-mx-profile-fallback` attribute containing exactly the text `<profile>: `. I think it would be beneficial to allow any tag (i.e. span) with the same attribute and any contents, including HTML formatted contents. This would include the original fallback but allow bots to customize the fallback if needed.
>
> My use case: I am bridging a Minecraft chat over matrix. Different players have different chat formats which I would like to include in the fallback so outdated clients will see chat exactly as shown in-game. Clients which support this feature would instead show the message as if it was sent by that user, ignoring the HTML content inside the fallback.
>
> If a client supports HTML-formatted content it should already have the logic to correctly parse HTML tags and ignoring a first tag with the `data-mx-profile-fallback` attribute, regardless of which tag it is or its contents, should not be difficult to implement.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Author: Clients may want to remove fallbacks at a different stage than HTML parsing, so requiring the use of a parser is probably a bad idea. Several clients had trouble with reply fallbacks too.

A separate field containing the exact fallback string to remove should be easy and safe to remove, but it also feels slightly weird and has never been done before. Maybe I should just do that anyway

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Reviewer 9: Maybe you could include the length of the formatted fallback string instead of the whole thing to avoid sending/storing duplicate data.

> following regex with an empty string: `<strong\s+data-mx-profile-fallback(?:="")?\s*>([^<]+): </strong\s*>`

Author: That would require it to strictly be a prefix, which may not be the case if the message uses paragraph tags or other such things
